basic-setup.md, before:

# Basic Setup

Getting started with Oracle Hospitality Integration Platform is easy.  Follow these steps.

1. [Accessing the Developer Portal](#1-accessing-the-developer-portal)
2. [Understanding the Developer Portal](#2-understanding-the-developer-portal)
3. [Obtaining Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials)
4. [Authentication Flows](#4-authentication-flows-background)
5. [Setting up Postman](#5-setting-up-postman)
6. [Obtaining an oAuth Token](#6-obtaining-an-oauth-token)
7. [Calling the getHotelDetails API](#7-calling-the-gethoteldetails-api)
8. [Finding the OPERA version of the environment](#8-finding-the-opera-version-of-the-environment-optional)
9. [Analytics](#9-view-analytics)

## 1. Accessing the Developer Portal

1. Create a Developer Portal user.  See [Adding Developer Portal Users](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/t_getting_started_for_partners.htm#OHIPU-AddingUsers-3E28413A)
2. Assign the `ApplicationDeveloper` role to the Developer Portal user.  See [Assigning Users to Roles](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/t_getting_started_for_partners.htm#OHIPU-AssigningUsersToRoles-879F91FD)
3. Sign in to the Oracle Hospitality Developer Portal.  See [Signing In to the Oracle Hospitality Developer Portal](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/t_getting_started_for_partners.htm#OHIPU-SigningInToTheDeveloperPortal-DC32FEE5)

## 2. Understanding the Developer Portal

### 2a. Finding APIs and workflows (optional)

These steps are *optional* but familiarize you with finding APIs in the Developer Portal.

1. Searching for the Enterprise Configuration API.  See [API Search Engine](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/ch_discover_and_subscribe_to_APIs.htm#OHIPU-APISearchEngine-3C569607)
2. View the API specifications for the V1 Enterprise Configuration API
3. Search for the operation `getHotelDetails`
4. Find the example request in Postman for `getHotelDetails` ![alt text](images/getting_started_2_4.png "screenshot of Oracle Hospitality Integration Platform developer portal searching for getHotelDetails highlighting the method to get to the Postman sample")
5. Find the workflow for checking in

### 2b. Creating an application

1. Create an application and subscribe it to the Property APIs.  See [Registering an Application](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/c_register_and_manage_applications.htm#OHIPU-CreatingAnApplication-D59E4A5D).  Note down the Application Key.

## 3. Obtaining credentials

### 3a. Creating Integration User (completed before the lab)

In this lab, we are using an environment on the Resource Owner grant.

You should already have completed the below steps ahead of the lab:

1. Create an integration user via the Shared Security Domain vendor self-registration portal.  Use the `Tenant` code supplied by the Oracle team.  Enter your company name in the `Vendor` field, without spaces and to a maximum of 10 characters.  Fill in the contact details and security questions.  Note down the `Interface ID` and `Interface Key`; these are your username and password.  See [Authenticating to Oracle Hospitality Property APIs](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/c_oracle_hospitality_property_apis.htm#OHIPU-AuthenticatingToOracleHospitalityPr-1BD54F80)
2. Let the Oracle team know your your `Interface ID` and email address so they can approve access.  In production, this would be approved by the hoteliers.

### 3b. Adding environment

1. On the Environments page add an environment, specifying your Integration Username (`Interface ID`), choosing the region and environment type listed by the Oracle team.  See [Adding an Environment](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/t_adding_an_environment.htm) ![alt text](images/getting_started_3_3.png "Add environment dialog on the Environments page of the Oracle Hospitality Integration Platform developer portal")
2. View and note down the gateway URL, clientId and clientSecret

## 4. Authentication Flows (background)

Oracle Hospitality APIs are protected by oAuth2.  There are two "flows" used in Oracle Hospitality APIs: Client Credentials, and Resource Owner.  These flows refer to which credentials are needed to obtain an oAuth token.  In this lab we're using an environment on the Resource Owner grant.

## 5. Setting up Postman

1. Download the latest Postman collections and the [Postman Environment](https://github.com/oracle/hospitality-api-docs/blob/main/postman-collections/oracle-hospitality-property.postman_environment.json) from the [Oracle Hospitality Github repository](https://github.com/oracle/hospitality-api-docs/tree/main/postman-collections)
2. Download the Postman collection in this repository (TO DO: Add Link)
3. Import these Postman collections and Environment into Postman
4. In the Postman Environment fill in the below details:

| **Variable Name** | **Value** |
| --- | --- |
| AppKey | Application key you noted down in [Creating an application](#2b-creating-an-application) |
| ClientId | ClientId obtained from the Environment card in [Obtaining Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |
| ClientSecret | ClientSecret obtained from the Environment card in [Obtaining Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |
| HostName | Gateway URL obtained from the Environment card in [Obtaining Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |
| HotelId | Value supplied by the Oracle team |
| Password | `Interface Key` from the Vendor Self-Registration Portal in [Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |
| Username | `Interface ID` from the Vendor Self-Registration Portal in [Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |

## 6. Obtaining an oAuth token

1. Expand the "Property REST APIs by Module" collection, inside the "OAuth Token" folder
2. Click the saved request `POST Get OAuth Token //initialize currentdate`
3. Click Send
4. Note that this populates the variable `Token` in the Postman environment with the value `access_token` returned in the response

## 7. Calling the getHotelDetails API

1. Search for the getHotelDetails saved request in Postman (it's in the "Property REST APIs by Module" collection in the folder "OPERA Property APIs by Module" > "Enterprise Configuration (ENT Config)").  *Note* for ease of reading, operationIds are separated by spaces, thus `getHotelDetails` appears as `get Hotel Details` ![alt text](images/getting_started_7_1.png "Searching for get Hotel Details in the Postman collections")
2. Click Send.  This works because it uses the oAuth token in the Postman Environment

## 8. Finding the OPERA version of the environment (Optional)

1. Search for the `get OPERA version` saved request in Postman (it's in the "Property REST APIs by Module" collection in the folder "List of Values (LOV)" > "M-R") ![alt text](images/getting_started_8_1.png "Searching for get OPERA version in the Postman collections")
2. Click Send.  Read the `operaVersion` from the response payload

## 9. View analytics

1. Go back to the Developer Portal and click on the Analytics tab.  See [Analytics](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/c_analytics.htm#OHIPU-Analytics-EC725F0D)
2. See the calls made just now in the analytics
3. Filter down to the Enterprise Configuration API to see just the calls we made to `getHotelDetails`, along with any other operations we called in the Enterprise Configuration API

Commit message:

Linked to Bootcamp Postman collection

basic-setup.md, after:

# Basic Setup

Getting started with Oracle Hospitality Integration Platform is easy.  Follow these steps.

1. [Accessing the Developer Portal](#1-accessing-the-developer-portal)
2. [Understanding the Developer Portal](#2-understanding-the-developer-portal)
3. [Obtaining Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials)
4. [Authentication Flows](#4-authentication-flows-background)
5. [Setting up Postman](#5-setting-up-postman)
6. [Obtaining an oAuth Token](#6-obtaining-an-oauth-token)
7. [Calling the getHotelDetails API](#7-calling-the-gethoteldetails-api)
8. [Finding the OPERA version of the environment](#8-finding-the-opera-version-of-the-environment-optional)
9. [Analytics](#9-view-analytics)

## 1. Accessing the Developer Portal

1. Create a Developer Portal user.  See [Adding Developer Portal Users](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/t_getting_started_for_partners.htm#OHIPU-AddingUsers-3E28413A)
2. Assign the `ApplicationDeveloper` role to the Developer Portal user.  See [Assigning Users to Roles](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/t_getting_started_for_partners.htm#OHIPU-AssigningUsersToRoles-879F91FD)
3. Sign in to the Oracle Hospitality Developer Portal.  See [Signing In to the Oracle Hospitality Developer Portal](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/t_getting_started_for_partners.htm#OHIPU-SigningInToTheDeveloperPortal-DC32FEE5)

## 2. Understanding the Developer Portal

### 2a. Finding APIs and workflows (optional)

These steps are *optional* but familiarize you with finding APIs in the Developer Portal.

1. Searching for the Enterprise Configuration API.  See [API Search Engine](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/ch_discover_and_subscribe_to_APIs.htm#OHIPU-APISearchEngine-3C569607)
2. View the API specifications for the V1 Enterprise Configuration API
3. Search for the operation `getHotelDetails`
4. Find the example request in Postman for `getHotelDetails` ![alt text](images/getting_started_2_4.png "screenshot of Oracle Hospitality Integration Platform developer portal searching for getHotelDetails highlighting the method to get to the Postman sample")
5. Find the workflow for checking in

### 2b. Creating an application

1. Create an application and subscribe it to the Property APIs.  See [Registering an Application](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/c_register_and_manage_applications.htm#OHIPU-CreatingAnApplication-D59E4A5D).  Note down the Application Key.

## 3. Obtaining credentials

### 3a. Creating Integration User (completed before the lab)

In this lab, we are using an environment on the Resource Owner grant.

You should already have completed the below steps ahead of the lab:

1. Create an integration user via the Shared Security Domain vendor self-registration portal.  Use the `Tenant` code supplied by the Oracle team.  Enter your company name in the `Vendor` field, without spaces and to a maximum of 10 characters.  Fill in the contact details and security questions.  Note down the `Interface ID` and `Interface Key`; these are your username and password.  See [Authenticating to Oracle Hospitality Property APIs](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/c_oracle_hospitality_property_apis.htm#OHIPU-AuthenticatingToOracleHospitalityPr-1BD54F80)
2. Let the Oracle team know your your `Interface ID` and email address so they can approve access.  In production, this would be approved by the hoteliers.

### 3b. Adding environment

1. On the Environments page add an environment, specifying your Integration Username (`Interface ID`), choosing the region and environment type listed by the Oracle team.  See [Adding an Environment](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/t_adding_an_environment.htm) ![alt text](images/getting_started_3_3.png "Add environment dialog on the Environments page of the Oracle Hospitality Integration Platform developer portal")
2. View and note down the gateway URL, clientId and clientSecret

## 4. Authentication Flows (background)

Oracle Hospitality APIs are protected by oAuth2.  There are two "flows" used in Oracle Hospitality APIs: Client Credentials, and Resource Owner.  These flows refer to which credentials are needed to obtain an oAuth token.  In this lab we're using an environment on the Resource Owner grant.

## 5. Setting up Postman

1. Download the latest Postman collections and the [Postman Environment](https://github.com/oracle/hospitality-api-docs/blob/main/postman-collections/oracle-hospitality-property.postman_environment.json) from the [Oracle Hospitality Github repository](https://github.com/oracle/hospitality-api-docs/tree/main/postman-collections)
2. Download the [Bootcamp Postman collection in this repository](Bootcamp_Reseller.postman_collection.json)
3. Download the [Bootcamp Postman environment in this repository](Bootcamp_Reseller.postman_environment.json)
4. Import these Postman collections and Environment into Postman
5. In the Postman Environment fill in the below details:

| **Variable Name** | **Value** |
| --- | --- |
| AppKey | Application key you noted down in [Creating an application](#2b-creating-an-application) |
| CLIENT_ID | ClientId obtained from the Environment card in [Obtaining Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |
| CLIENT_SECRET | ClientSecret obtained from the Environment card in [Obtaining Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |
| HostName | Gateway URL obtained from the Environment card in [Obtaining Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |
| HotelId | Value supplied by the Oracle team.  This is already filled in for the Bootcamp environment |
| Password | `Interface Key` from the Vendor Self-Registration Portal in [Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |
| Username | `Interface ID` from the Vendor Self-Registration Portal in [Credentials](#3-obtaining-credentials) |

## 6. Obtaining an oAuth token

1. Expand the "Bootcamp" collection, inside the "Implementation Use Cases" folder
2. Click the saved request `01. Get oAuth Token`
3. Click Send
4. Note that this populates the variable `Token` in the Postman environment with the value `access_token` returned in the response

## 7. Calling the getHotelDetails API

1. Search for the getHotelDetails saved request in Postman (it's in the "Property REST APIs by Module" collection in the folder "OPERA Property APIs by Module" > "Enterprise Configuration (ENT Config)").  *Note* for ease of reading, operationIds are separated by spaces, thus `getHotelDetails` appears as `get Hotel Details` ![alt text](images/getting_started_7_1.png "Searching for get Hotel Details in the Postman collections")
2. Click Send.  This works because it uses the oAuth token in the Postman Environment

## 8. Finding the OPERA version of the environment (Optional)

1. Search for the `get OPERA version` saved request in Postman (it's in the "Property REST APIs by Module" collection in the folder "List of Values (LOV)" > "M-R") ![alt text](images/getting_started_8_1.png "Searching for get OPERA version in the Postman collections")
2. Click Send.  Read the `operaVersion` from the response payload

## 9. View analytics

1. Go back to the Developer Portal and click on the Analytics tab.  See [Analytics](https://docs.oracle.com/en/industries/hospitality/integration-platform/ohipu/c_analytics.htm#OHIPU-Analytics-EC725F0D)
2. See the calls made just now in the analytics
3. Filter down to the Enterprise Configuration API to see just the calls we made to `getHotelDetails`, along with any other operations we called in the Enterprise Configuration API
